Let's begin with what a health record is
since this is the basis for what is stored electronically.
Essentially, it is a patient's documentation of
their healthcare encounters and the data created by the encounters across time.
To gain a bit more perspective on health care records,
lets talk a bit about its history.
Health records have been around for a very long time,
essentially since the first doctor who took any notes about a patient.
Up until very recently,
records have all been written and stored on paper.
Written records had lots of information on them,
but as the world population grew and medical records involved,
the number of records soared while the ability to use them to help a patient diminished.
As the need and capability arose to transition from
paper to electronic medical records, EHR was born.
There was even a law created to help this alone,
you might have heard of it, HIPAA,
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act,
was passed in 1996 to address this.
You'll learn more about this in the EHR data security section of the course.
This not only led to brand new systems for storing and collecting EHR data,
but also for the need to translate all of
the old paper data into something usable by these new systems.
That's a particular great job for AI,
but there are many other potential uses for AI with EHR.
A few other fantastic uses of AI and EHR include: mapping of our genes in genomics,
analyzing data from clinical trials,
and predicting a diagnosis.
That's it for your history lesson on EHR.
Now that you have a little background,
we will discuss the current landscape for EHR data in AI.